Kentish Town Station:The walk begins from Kentish Town Station. Leave the station and head south down Kentish Town Road. 

For many centuries Kentish Town was a small hamlet outside London that grew up in the shadow of nearby St Pancras Church. The latter may have been badly affected by flooding from the Fleet River, and so a chapel of ease was built near here in the 13th century. A few cottages, and later inns, sprung up, alongside the bank of the Fleet River that once dominated this area before urbanisation drove it underground.   The origin of the district’s name is most probably linked to the river, a corruption of  old English words ‘Ken-ditch’ meaning ‘bed of a waterway’. 

Look back at the station itself, a fine example of the [ox-blood] tiles that are such a feature of [  ], one of London’s most prolific underground station designers.;River Fleet:As you walk along you will soon realise Kentish Town is a busy place – one that has been considerably gentrified in recent years, but keeping a little of its old edge.  There are a mix of mediocre 20th century and Victorian buildings – an example of the latter being The Oxford public house just a short way down on the left by Islip Street.  In the 17th and 18th centuries wealthy people built country houses in the area, surrounded by hay fields and farms, with the River Fleet running right through the area.  
 
The River Fleet starts in two places – one on Hampstead Heath, the other in Highgate.  Long since pushed underground, the two parts of the river meet just north of Kentish Town, and continue underground today right through London before emptying into the Thames at [ ]. It is hard to imagine in the modern age how important it was for Londoners of the past to be near to water, and sadly there is very little to remind visitors to Kentish Town of the river that still flows underneath and which was once so prominent to day to day life here.;Rio's Relaxation Spa:Today Kentish Town Road is like many British shopping streets – tattoo and charity shops found beside tanning salons,  with more upmarket cafes.   On the right (west) side you pass Rio’s ‘Relaxation Spa’ – a reminder of this part of London’s more sleazy past, although many of the massage parlours in the district have now gone as the area has moved upmarket.;Abbey Tavern:After a short walk you pass the Abbey Tavern on the left. A pub since the 1860s, it is just one of the many Victorian boozers that Kentish Town has long been known for. Mary Shelley lived on Bartholomew Place that stood very near here, although in the 1820 it was surrounded by fields;Greek Orthodox Cathedral:The striking Greek Orthodox Cathedral of St Andrew. It originated in 1885 as an Anglican church dedicated to St Barnabas, and was later converted in 1957 for use by the Greek community.;Quinn's Public House:Cross over to Quinn’s public house. This stands approximately where the two strands of the Fleet River – one from Highgate and one from Hampstead – finally converge before continuing south to the Thames. Head back North.;South Kentish Town Tube:Back at the junction on the left hand side look for the ox blood tiles of a shop, for many years home to a massage parlour, that was once the site of the South Kentish Town tube station that opened in 1907 but closed just 17 years later after a strike.  This featured a 1951 short story by Sir John Betjeman’s named ‘South Kentish Town’ which centres of an ‘income tax official’ who, taking the tube home, accidently gets out at the deserted ghost station when the driver stops here and opens the doors to check a fault on the line.  The hapless commuter is left stranded here.;Castle Street:When Kentish Town was still a rural idyll, the Castle Inn stood here, by legend dating back to the reign of King John.  It has long gone, demolished in 1849, but many of the surrounding roads lie on the former gardens of the famous old inn.  It is said Lord Nelson lived at the inn for a while. Between 1775 and 1800 the population of the local St Pancras parish jumped from 600 to 32,000, evidence of the huge urbanisation that took place. It transformed a hamlet into a suburb of London, attracting notable residents such as Mary Shelley – author of Frankenstein, wife of poet [Percey Shelley and friend of Byron - who moved here in 1824.(She described the place as an ‘odious swamp’).Nearby Kelly Street and Castlehaven Roads date from the 1850s, the decade that saw the Fleet River and many ponds that have been built along its route, to be covered over.  The arrival of the railways from the 1860s saw the area decline, becoming more working class and poorer in character as the wealthier residents moved elsewhere.Kentish Town became an industrialised, best known for its piano manufacturers, but also home to makers of false teeth, metal workers, furniture manufacturers and many other trades.  This industry thrived until the 1920s after which the area began a slow, steady decline, only reversed in recent years. Nearby Kelly Street and Castlehaven Roads date from the 1850s, the decade that saw the Fleet River and many ponds that have been built along its route, to be covered over.  The arrival of the railways from the 1860s saw the area decline, becoming more working class and poorer in character as the wealthier residents moved elsewhere. Kentish Town became an industrialised, best known for its piano manufacturers, but also home to makers of false teeth, metal workers, furniture manufacturers and many other trades.  This industry thrived until the 1920s after which the area began a slow, steady decline, only reversed in recent years.;Kelly Street:Originally Church Street, it was re-named after local housing developer John Kelly in 1870.  Walk a hundred yards or so to see the pretty painted houses.  No one seems to know what kick started the decision by residents to make such an effort to paint their houses this way, but it seems to have begun in the 1960s.   Kelly Street is typical of the gentrification that has taken place of many parts of Kentish Town – in the late 90s two or three bedroom houses sold here for around £180,000, whereas in recent years they are more likely to sell for over £1million. Walk along Kelly Street then right into Castlehaven Road, heading north to reach Prince of Wales road.;Public Baths:Directly opposite are the huge public baths dating from [1900], and part of the great drive by authorities in the Victorian and Edwardian age to provide amenities for ordinary people who often had no running water or bathroom at home. Cross over and walk a short way down Grafton Road, looking out for the old signage for ‘Public Washhouse’ and ‘Ladies Baths’.;Piano Manufacture:At the end of Perren Street is a building that is a relic of Kentish Town’s industrial past. This was once home to the Imperial Works and pianos and organs were manufactured here.  The north end of Ryland Road was also the site of a major piano factory in the late 19th century. A few properties in this road still have WWII Anderson Shelters now used as garden sheds.;Collège français bilingue de Londres:A French  school that opened in 2011 to cater for the explosion of demand for London’s many French-speaking residents. It is housed in an old school that dates from 1874, significant as it is one of many such establishments that were constructed after the ground-breaking Education Act of 1870 began to roll out a State funded education for ordinary people.;Anglers Lane:This is just one of several local streets whose names are a reminder of the age when the Fleet River flowed above ground.